this James bird and
I'm here to talk
about web accessibility
so you can think
of the web a lot like
you can think of a
public library
it's a giant store
of information
available to everyone
that people from
all over can go to
however do you see a
problem in this image
if you can't get
upstairs you're
probably gonna have a
little bit of trouble
getting into the
library unless you
have an access ramp
where the accessibility
is basically
building access ramps
to the web and
making sure that
everyone can access
everything in the web
equally and on the
same level so here's
an example this
code more or less
you know looks fine
you know it's not
great code it's kind
of a crappy website probably but
nonetheless it works
however there are
some problems that
are not immediately
apparent from just
looking at the code
so here I'm going
to open up the web
page and we'll see
the problem see not
only is this ugly
there's also the fact
that if you have red
gooey red green
colorblindness you're
probably going to
have a lot of trouble
reading any of the
actual text because
it's green on red
this is probably not immediately
apparent to most
people and it doesn't
even affect most
people but it's still
there and you want
your website to be
accessed to be able
to be accessed by
every person you know
every person who
can't access your
website because of a
disability is lost
business in addition
to just being unfair
to that person so
to combat this the
World Wide Web
Consortium which is
more or less the
governing body of the
web or as close as
can be to one created the web
accessibility initiative
which sought to
create web content accessibility
guidelines or WCAG
currently they have
published wcag 2.0
in 2008 and that's
pretty much the why
most widely accepted
standard for web
accessibility standards
pretty much every
country goes by some
variant of this or
just uses WCAG 2 so
what does that consist
of well there are
four main principles
information should
be perceivable which
basically means
that everyone should
be able to perceive
the information you
shouldn't have any
information that's hidden to a
particular class of users for
if you are deaf you should have
transcripts that you
can read for audio
podcasts because otherwise that
information will be
completely hidden
information and the
website needs to be
operable which means
you need to be able
to access all of the
website regardless
of disabilities so
for example you
wouldn't want for
example a button that
can only be activated
by clicking on it
and not by any sort
of keyboard commands
because then if you
can't use a mouse do
it for example a motor
disability you're
not going to be
able to access that
button you have
understandable this one
is a little bit more
vague a little bit
more straightforward
basically all
information needs
to be able to be
understood by the
user your website
should be predictable
it shouldn't do
just like weird like
unexplained things
this is also just
good website design
besides being helpful
to some people
with disabilities and
then lastly your
website needs to
be a robust which
basically just
means you know for
unpredictable use
cases for things you
haven't tested you
know for different
weird specs like
on mobile on a big
screen on all that
type of stuff your
website should still
operate more or
less the same and still
be accessible to
everyone
so there are 12 general
guidelines for
implementing these
principles which have
61 testable criteria
and there are three
levels of conformance
a double-a and
triple-a so at this point you're
probably like feel
a little bit like
Cody here because yeah
it's very complex
and in making a
site completely web
accessible and
implementing it as Triple
A which is the highest
level is very
difficult and it takes
a long time the
point is you shouldn't
worry about that
too much
you should mostly
focus on when you're
building a website
think about the type
of things that could
make life easier
for disabled people think about
implementing alternatives
so if you have
a function that
really just can't be
implemented in a way
that's accessible
provide an alternative
to get the same
information it doesn't
have to be on the
main site as long as
you can get to it
from the main site
and even a lot of
like professional
websites and even a
lot of governments
only require single A
or double-a levels of
conformance Triple
A is very very much
an ideal moreso than
a practical thing for
large websites so
to think about what
kind of disabilities
you should be targeting
here are some
general categories
you have people with
visual disabilities
for example the
blind
colorblind things like
that people can't
read very well so
for these types of
things you need to
think about how you
use color a lot you
shouldn't use you
shouldn't have contrast
between text and
background that makes
it difficult to
see you should
make sure all your
websites are capable
of being used by
screen readers which
are basically just
things that are operated
by the keyboard
and just read out
the content of the
thing so for example
a classic example
of this is an image
tag you need to have
an alt tag in your
images because
otherwise people with
slow internet or
people using screen
readers are not
going to get anything
information from
that it's just going
to be this mystical
thing that no one can
look at you have
people of audio
disabilities so for
example deafness
hard-of-hearing and so
these are the aforementioned
transcripts come in
a lot of handy you
want to have
subtitles for videos
transcripts for
podcasts etc motor
disabilities so for
example things that
make it difficult to
use a mouse or even
things that make it
difficult to use a
keyboard this is why
you want to have
your website be
completely accessible
solely from the
keyboard so that people
not who can't use a
mouse can still use
it completely and
then cognitive this
one's a little bit
harder to quantify
specifically but
basically just make
your information able
to be accessed by
people with learning
disabilities you
know even like younger
children also
like people who aren't
necessarily going
to be able to like
read and understand
like a long block of
text or whatever so
we're going to go
over another example
I've built my own
private website and
I'm really proud of
it so you know I'm
going to show it to
you guys are you
ready oh well that
doesn't look very
good huh all right
so I thought this
website was gonna be
great but clearly
there's a lot of
web accessibility
issues like the
contrast is terrible
this might trigger
people with epilepsy
I don't even know
what this is let's
look at the actual
document so you
wouldn't clean some
of this up so the
first thing you
should do when you're
mixing a website to
make it more web
accessible is the
biggest problem with
this code is it's
really hard to read
because I didn't
implement a stylesheet
I just have all this
code inside style
tag I have some inline
styling and then
my script tag instead
of putting it in a
separate JavaScript
pile I just put
actual script right
here so the first
thing you should do
is refactor those
and take all those
out and move them to
a separate file
so the difference
between this which is this long
unreadable thing and
then this which is
just the HTML itself
is huge and it
makes it much easier
to change things
it's like for example
you'll notice I've
been pointed everything
with classes I
have a script file I
have a style sheet
somewhere else don't
panic also it's a
very daunting task
especially when
you're using some
sort of editor that
will give you all
these errors for like
this is not accessible
this is not
accessible this is
you're doing this
wrong don't panic
don't worry about
making everything
perfect immediately
because it's not going
to be it's very
difficult to make a
website completely
web accessible that's
why it's taken so
long for the w3c to
implement the WCAG
separate your HTML
from your CSS and
your JavaScript and
consider providing
alternatives sometimes
it's a lot easier
instead of just
completely changing your
main site to just
provide a link there
that says you know
for people with this
disability consider
using this other
resource and then you
can just provide
it very simply without
having to change
your main website and
then if anyone is
interested you can
read about the WCAG
guidelines in greedy
detail at this
website thank you
[Applause]